racism it's a problem in scotland
it's a problem in canada i have lived
in scotland i have lived in canada
scottish parliament recently proposed
a law banning hate speech
the draft of the law has for the time
being been thrown out
or sent to have revisions because the
first draft would have pretty much
banned any use of speech whatsoever
potentially
it was much too broad and ill-defined
i notice the public response to this has
been a demand
to define racism i think this is 180
degrees wrong
what we need to define is speech
i don't believe that freedom of speech
exists so that you can interrupt someone
and insult them because of the color of
their skin
while they're buying groceries or while
they're standing in the lineup
to pay for their groceries at the
grocery store is that what you mean
by speech when you say freedom of speech
would you really
would you really be opposed to a law
that limits your freedom of speech
in that context speech
is now being used politically to mean
the whole range
from carefully considered
academic articles published in
peer-reviewed volumes that sit in the
library
down to fights between boyfriends and
girlfriends
husbands and wives that may indeed these
days end up
on the internet on instagram live on
youtube
you name it right speech has been used
in such a broad sense that it's
inevitable
we have to legislate limits to freedom
of speech let me say this
when i lived in scotland people thought
i was older than i was
because i was tall for my age in general
i was taller than everyone in scotland
at that time i
hope the average height has increased
since then i seem to tower like a giant
over both children and adults
when i was in scotland but i was i was
still a child
and people tried to start fist fights
with me
because i was a jew based
on my appearance they tried to insult me
and say racist things to me and start
fist fights with me
that only happened to me one other time
in my life i can remember and i was in
florida
in the united states of america okay is
that
is that speech is that the freedom of
speech
you want to preserve we have a very
strangely
parallel problem in the united states
with protest right there's a sense in
which we all want to
preserve the freedom to protest
but we have to define protest the united
states constitution does not
any protest whatsoever is supposedly
legal and protected under their
constitution
well some people think that an effective
form of protesting against the
corruption or incompetence of the police
is to burn down a fast food restaurant a
burn down at wendy's
a woman i i might add a an
african-american woman a black woman
was shot at and as i recall her daughter
in the back seat died
she herself didn't die because she was
trying to drive her car past that same
wendy's and a group of armed protesters
themselves also
african-american part of the black lives
matter movement they felt
a legitimate form of protest was to
block off that intersection and to
prevent to have a blockade to prevent
any traffic
from from passing by and to use guns to
force people to stop or turn around if
they wanted
to drive by and she was just trying to
go i think she was trying to drive her
daughter had been visiting a friend and
she was trying to drive from one house
to another and said nothing nothing to
do with politics not for her
right so what is what is protest
right you see how the
effort to define racism
more narrowly or more precisely can be a
dangerous distraction
from what the real political problems
are okay
i have been in one situation i was
actually in
england not scotland
where some tonys
were denouncing basically in racist
terms you know an outsider
because you know you're not from around
here now i admit this is not strictly
speaking
racist this is like localism versus
foreignerism it's
some other term could be used here it's
xenophobia maybe and it's in its
purest form and man
i've never lived in any other culture
like that i've never lived another
culture
like scotland and england where people
are just
down for a fist fight or a knife fight
or to stab each other
with a broken beer bottle they are down
for that broad daylight
all the time they want to fight
for no reason at all they're looking for
a reason
they want you to give them a reason and
often enough
racism is the reason i saw an interview
with a man and he wasn't that young when
the interview was conducted
he looked about 25 to me but he was
talking about his experiences
as a teenager in scotland sky was black
completely born and raised in scotland
showed his mother on camera by her
accent his mother also seemed to be
born and raised in scotland i don't know
our whole story um
so this guy i mean he really he really
was as scottish as i am canadian i'm
born and raised in
canada you know uh and
all his life starting from when he was
tall enough
to be perceived as a teenager
white scottish people were shouting the
n-word at him on the street including
like
from the front steps of their house like
they'd see him through the window and
they'd run
out onto the front porch the house and
start showing the n-word
and other it's trying to get into a fist
fight with him
and partly just because he was a big guy
who looked like he'd be a
a good fight and many of these
fistfights when with the police showing
up
and the police would ask him what
happened and he'd say oh well this guy
called me the n-word and the police said
why did why don't you just let him why
just keep walking
and he said i just remember this is what
he said in the interview it wasn't a
terribly witty or instead of saying
he said well he said that to me not you
didn't he that was you know what he you
know completely sincere you know it's
just obviously it's not the most
it's not the ideal answer to give a
police officer but i think his point was
he was insinuating
if you the police officer had been in my
position you would have
beaten this guy up also okay so now
those police are in the position of
saying
this is freedom of speech like people
literally have the right
to come up to you and denounce you
because of the color
of your skin to your face or show you in
a grocery store or
at any at any given time all right is
that
is that freedom of speech is that the
freedom of speech you want
enshrined in law that you want in a
future constitution i'm not asking
whether or not it's the freedom of
speech you already have in the
constitution you've got the [ __ ]
piece of crap worthless
constitution from 200 years ago wherever
you live
so i have viewers all over the world
since world war ii in some places since
wherever it is you you you live the
constitution you've written i'm sure it
doesn't
give a satisfactory answer but my point
is it would be very
easy to write a satisfactory answer to
this
um there was a tv show
called jersey shore and on one
season of that tv show i used to watch
that show with my ex-wife
while we were working out at the gym
on the step machine they had the step
machines with the tv screen that was how
i first
encountered jersey shore and i think it
was in reruns i don't think it was new
um i i saw most of the episodes of
jersey shore no
i don't know um you know
there is a scene that ends with the
police arresting
one of the main characters in the show
because this is all caught on tape
some other people who were at a
nightclub with him were running after
him and shouting
the worst insults they could come up
with you know again and again he was
walking away he was leaving the club he
was walking on the sidewalk with his
girlfriend hand-in-hand
and these guys kept coming up and
insulting him and sharing his insults
loudly this is at night on the sidewalk
outside
and eventually after the third or fourth
time whatever it was
he turns around and he punches one of
these guys in the face
he's a very strong just one punch can
really
can harm someone for the rest of their
lives can do terrible damage
theoretically
could it could not but one punch can can
change somebody's life can change your
life too
and the police come and arrest him for
aggravated assault in the united states
as it as it stands now freedom of speech
means
that the guy who ran into the nightclub
instigating this fight again and again
and again did absolutely nothing wrong
he was enjoying his freedom of speech at
two o'clock in the morning
on the sidewalk shouting insults chasing
after someone who was walking away from
him
holding out this girl again and again
that's that's protected right now
as freedom of speech it is the wrong
question to ask
how do we define racism what we need to
ask is what is
the speech that is being protected for
political purposes and what is
the type of speech that's being
constrained
delimited ultimately condemned
this always struck me as being the
unasked and unanswered question in
thailand
very briefly in thailand you cannot say
anything
criticizing the king criticizing the
royal family criticizing the monarchy
under any circumstances not even on a
facebook message
what have you i could understand
if they wanted to have a law saying
you can't interrupt a religious ceremony
that the king is presiding over you
can't interrupt
a parade on the main street where you're
within
500 meters of the king i could
understand having laws saying look
freedom of speech doesn't give you the
right to disrupt
everyone else what everyone else is
doing at this party for the sake of your
political cause but obviously it's
tremendously important that people do
have the ability to complain to
criticize
on facebook in newspaper articles to
dispute
uh what really happened in various
historical episodes
and i might add even the most shocking
even the most disturbing
of historical episodes i think i've
already mentioned in this video i'm
i'm jewish and i know what it's like to
be punched in the face and insulted for
being jewish i do
okay i once read an article written by a
well-intentioned guy
who was pointing out by the way also my
parents worked in the museum field
he had these great examples of lies
about the holocaust that were in
museums and he was saying he's not a
holocaust denier
one of the examples was of um
a photograph and
someone working at the museum had
painted
smoke coming out of a smoke stack to
make it look more
dramatic so there was white smoke smoke
stack
and he was saying look this is actually
really this is really tampering with the
store of lemons people look at it they
don't know it's painted on
there's like photoshopping evidence and
he got into some of the technical
details about how the gas chambers
worked it was like it didn't actually
produce that kind of smoke it was this
big dramatic column of smoke
he said look what actually happened here
didn't produce
and part of his point was
if you don't have the freedom of speech
to cross-examine it to ask unthinkable
shocking questions right
something really important is going to
be lost here okay
however that's not the same
as having the freedom to interrupt
someone
at a funeral can you guys remember this
can you guys remember back when gay
rights
still more of an uh open and unresolved
case united states do you remember
christian fundamentalists
showing up to protest at gay people's
funerals
holding signs shouting making noise
cheering
saying that that person is going to hell
confronting the priest
and the grieving parents or the grieving
boyfriends and
whatever whoever shows up at this
funeral and saying this person has no
right to be buried in a christian
cemetery and they're going to hell and
this is the passage of the bible that
says so and so on and so forth
is that what freedom of speech means to
you is the ability to advocate for
homophobia at a funeral the right to
advocate for racism
at the grocery store or someone's
waiting to check out their groceries
right see
what's most disturbing to me of all
i'm now 42 years old i've never heard
anyone else ask this question
i've never heard anyone else discuss
this karl popper
philosopher and a scientist both
he said that the most disturbing thing
to him about his
scientific discoveries and his new ideas
and philosophy
was that he never wanted to believe
that they were original in at least one
or two cases he actually paid
a researcher or hired an intern to go
through the history books and check
someone else must have pointed this out
before
someone else must have come up with it
it's so obvious
right and he would be kind of horrified
and dismayed to find
that no nobody else had raised this
objection nobody else had asked this
question
there's no record this this is before
the invention of google
on the internet now right um
we have a case here in canada it's again
raising old wounds about racism
and people are asking the same questions
a woman died in
hospital and the the employees of the
hospital
doctors and nurses were saying insulting
things to
her while she lay there dying it is
being interpreted as racism
the much more disturbing possibility is
that these doctors and nurses would have
been just insulting
to a white person as they were to an
aboriginal person an indigenous person a
first nations person
the woman who was left it's it's
possible it's possible it's racism and
it's possible this was
unprofessionalism cruelty so on and so
forth
right do you believe in
freedom of speech do you believe that a
doctor or a nurse
has the right to stand there and tell
you that you deserve to die
that you're a terrible person while
you're lying there in your hospital bed
dying
and the whole public is responding to
this by talking about
racism and defining racism
and institutional racism and as if we're
going to do some kind of purity test
to decide who is and who isn't racist
among doctors and nurses
i see a whole political system that
inevitably
is going to come to the wrong
conclusions it's going to fail
to find the right answers because nobody
is asking the right questions